Many people believe in God.
In what sense?
They believe that there must exist
a God, a Creator.
Sheer logic causes them to believe this.
Why?
Because of being aware
that there is creation.
If the Creator would not exist,
no creation would exist.
Why?
Because nothing comes from nothing.
This is also why we know
that God has always existed.
If there would have been a time
when he did not exist,
then nothing would exist today.
The fact that creation exists
proves there must be a Creator.
It also shows
that God exists from all eternity,
although with our imperfect human mind
we have a hard time grasping this.
We are the product of his creation.
But is it enough
to believe in him as the Creator
because without a Creator
there could be no creation?
No.
Is it enough for a child to believe
he has a father
because without a father he would not exist?
No.
A child should love his father;
a father normally loves
and cares for his children.
The Creator, our Father,
not only cares about his creation,
but he also loves us
and cares for us as individuals.
He cares about you.
Jehovah God loves you.
Do you love him?
Are you a lover of God?
This is not automatic.
The apostle Paul says at 2 Timothy 3:4
that most people
in this time of the end would be
“lovers of pleasures
rather than lovers of God.”
Sometimes we may have
feelings of worthlessness,
and such feelings could dampen
our zeal in serving Jehovah,
could dampen our love,
or even could cause us
to stop serving him.
Therefore, we need to build up and deepen
our love and trust in Jehovah.
Jehovah loves mankind.
What evidence is there for that?
We see Jehovah’s love in nature.
He created numerous trees,
plants, and flowers
so that we can enjoy them.
He created for us not only things
that we need to keep living
but things that impress our hearts
with awe and love for God,
the Giver of “every good gift.”
Man is not able to create one single animal
or even a fruit or flower.
The things God created help us to live
and enjoy living for as long as we do.
But Jehovah loves mankind so much
that he gave his firstborn spirit Son,
whom we came to know as Jesus Christ,
as a ransom for the sins
of us imperfect humans
(for those who love him)
so they may live and enjoy
God’s love forever.
Although the first humans
rebelled against Jehovah God,
Jehovah knew that there would be many others
who would choose to serve him out of love.
Please turn with me to John chapter 6.
Your listening in to this program is proof
not only of your love
for Jehovah God and Jesus
but also of their love
for you as an individual.
At John 6:44, Jesus said:
“No man can come to me
unless the Father, who sent me, draws him.”
The Scriptures show
that Jehovah has given humans free will.
Everyone has a choice
when it comes to serving him.
God gently draws to himself
those who have a heart
that is “rightly disposed.”
Jehovah does so through the Bible’s message
and through his holy spirit.
How does Jehovah draw us?
The Greek verb rendered “draw”
is used in reference
to hauling in a net of fishes.
Does Jehovah drag us against our will,
forcing us to serve him?
No.
Jehovah gave us free will,
so he does not force our heart open.
One scholar puts it this way:
“There is no handle on the outside
of the door of the human heart.
It must be opened from within.”
Jehovah searches through the billions
of hearts in this world,
looking for individuals
who are inclined toward him.
When he finds such a person,
he responds in a touching way.
Are you such a person?
We trust you are.
Jehovah gently attracts, or tugs,
at the hearts of ones
who are “rightly disposed.”
Jehovah does so in two ways
—through the Bible’s message of good news
and through his holy spirit.
When Jehovah sees a heart
that is responsive to Bible truth,
he uses his spirit to help the individual
to grasp and apply that truth in his life.
Without divine help,
we could never become
genuine followers of Jesus
and devoted worshippers of Jehovah.
Jehovah draws people because he sees
something good in their heart
and cares about them as individuals.
Does knowing that Jehovah cares
about his worshippers as individuals
move you to want to open
that door of your heart
and open it wide?
As you watch the following video,
notice how a brother named Carlos
came to appreciate
that Jehovah is the loving Father
whom he had always yearned for.
When I went through difficult times
during my childhood,
Jehovah was like my Father.
He was my refuge.
The first memory I have of my dad
is when I went to visit him
in the prison where he was being held.
I asked Jehovah so many times
for my dad to come back home.
One day,
my mom said, “Dad’s coming home today.”
I went to school,
and when I came back, he was there.
I thought that he was finally back for good
and that it would be forever.
But soon after that,
I heard my mom and my grandmother crying,
and they started to explain
that my dad was back in prison.
From then on, I felt hatred,
resentment, and anger toward my dad
and also toward Jehovah.
I started to take drugs
and to lead an immoral and violent lifestyle.
One day, a couple of sisters
gave me a magazine.
As I was looking through it,
I saw the experience about Dustin.
I began to think about the times
during my childhood
when I would take refuge in Jehovah
and would feel the same way Dustin did.
I would say: “Jehovah is there.
He hasn’t abandoned me.”
Dustin never doubted Jehovah’s love,
right up until the day he died.
That very night, I prayed to Jehovah.
I asked him to forgive me because,
well,
it wasn’t his fault.
That night I poured out
all my feelings to Jehovah.
That burden that I felt was finally gone.
I felt Jehovah’s love every step of the way.
He showed it through the brothers
who didn’t judge me for what I had done.
It doesn’t matter how many problems we have
or how far we’ve drifted away from Jehovah.
He never abandons us.
Jehovah has lovingly helped
many brothers and sisters
because of his love for them.
This can reassure you
that Jehovah will help you as well
because Jehovah loves you too.
Did you notice how Jehovah
demonstrated his love for Carlos?
Through his worshippers,
Jehovah lovingly cared for this young man.
Please turn with me to Psalm 119.
Jehovah had not forgotten Carlos,
even though he had strayed for a time.
This reminds us of the words
at Psalm 119:176:
“I have strayed like a lost sheep.
“Search for your servant,
for I have not forgotten your commandments.”
There are indications that Psalm 119
may have been written
by young Prince Hezekiah.
Hezekiah poured out his heart to Jehovah,
and Jehovah responded.
Brothers and sisters, please pour out
your hearts to Jehovah,
and take note
of how he will answer your prayers.
Please turn with me to Ephesians chapter 3.
Jehovah can and will
intervene positively in your life.
Notice what it says at Ephesians 3:20:
“Now to the one who can,
according to his power
“that is operating in us,
“do more than superabundantly
beyond all the things we ask or conceive.”
The expression
“his power that is operating in us”
—is this not something very encouraging
and faith-strengthening?
His power is not just “operating in us”
but “operating in us . . . superabundantly”
—no, but “more than superabundantly,”
beyond what we can envision or comprehend.
“He will draw close to you,”
says James 4:8.
Whether he wrote Psalm 119 or not,
Hezekiah strengthened
his faith in Jehovah and trusted him.
He did so even though he was surrounded
by false worshippers
and may have been ridiculed
by members of the royal court.
Jehovah blessed Hezekiah.
If you trust Jehovah,
he will bless you as well.
With reliance on God,
you too can endure trials
as integrity-keepers.
Apply Bible principles in your life,
and see how following Jehovah’s advice
will always work out for your good.
Strong faith in God’s love helps us
to see beyond our imperfections
or the negative experiences
that we may have had in the past.
We see ourselves the way Jehovah sees us
—as a cherished part of his household.
We are a family member of Jehovah’s family.
Notice the encouragement we receive
at Psalm 119
and verse 32.
Faith in God’s love gives us the confidence
that we need to keep going.
At Psalm 119:32, it says:
“I will eagerly pursue
the way of your commandments
because you make room for it in my heart.”
The footnote says: “Or possibly,
‘you make my heart have the confidence.’”
We will be able to endure any trial.
Are there things that can separate us
from Jehovah’s love toward us?
Do you recall what we are told
at Romans chapter 8?
Nothing can separate us
from Jehovah’s love toward us.
Let’s read this together,
Romans chapter 8
and verses 35 to 39:
“Who will separate us
from the love of the Christ?
“Will tribulation or distress or persecution
“or hunger or nakedness or danger or sword?
“Just as it is written:
“‘For your sake we are being put to death
all day long;
“we have been accounted
as sheep for slaughtering.’
“On the contrary, in all these things
“we are coming off completely victorious
“through the one who loved us.
“For I am convinced
that neither death nor life
“nor angels nor governments
nor things now here nor things to come
“nor powers nor height nor depth
nor any other creation
“will be able to separate us from God’s love
that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.”
But there are things that can diminish
or kill our love for Jehovah,
so we need to be careful.
This symposium has reminded us
of why we have faith in God’s existence,
his Word, his moral standards,
and his love.
As the world around us grows more hopeless,
we are determined to become
more and more powerful by faith!
About Abraham, Romans 4:20 says:
“But because of the promise of God,
“he did not waver in a lack of faith;
but he became powerful by his faith,
giving God glory.”
Similarly, Jehovah has also given
promises to us.
And as he progressively fulfills them,
we become
more and more “powerful by [our] faith”
and give glory to Jehovah God!